README.md, before:

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo.png)

A multiboot-compliant *Executable and Linking Format* (ELF) bootloader for the x86 architecture.

### Features ###

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo-inline.png) is highly modular BIOS bootloader for the x86 architecture . It supports drivers for both IDE and AHCI/RAID controllers. Also, further modules include file system drivers like *ISO 9660*. For the graphical boot menu, a simple PS/2 keyboard module is available, too.

Currently, we support the following modules:

 - Programmable Interval Timer (PIT)
 - PS/2 Keyboard module

For PCI devices, we also provide modules for:

 - IDE controller
 - AHCI/RAID controller

Even the screen is managed by a module, which depends on the screen resolution used:

 - TTY driver <sub>(currently VGA only)</sub>

### Building elfboot ###

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo-inline.png) requires the use of a dedicated toolchain, included in this project. The toolchain is generated simply by typing

```
make toolchain
```

All that's left is to configure the elfboot settings in the `elfboot.config` file. If you are happy with the configured options, build the bootloader by typing

```
make iso
```

> **Note**: For now, we only support the generation of *ISO 9660* formatted disks. In the near future, we also want to support other file systems.

### Booting kernels ###

Each boot entry is defined in the `elfboot.cfg` boot file, which contains information about each kernel found. If only one entry is available, you can configure elfboot to directly boot the kernel without any graphical boot menu. An example for a valid boot entry for a Linux boot would look as follows:

```
bootentry "Linux 5.18.0" {
	kernel linux /root/boot/bzImage
	initrd /root/boot/rootfs.cpio.gz
	cmdline root=/dev/sr0 rw
}
```

> **Note**: Currently, we only support booting Linux. Further boot protocols are going to be introduced in the near future.

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo-inline.png) currently supports the following boot protocols:

 - Linux (module **lxboot**)

In the near future, we want to at least implement two more protocols:

 - Multiboot (1, 2)
 - Stivale

### Screenshot ###

![elfboot menu](images/elfboot-loader-menu.png)

Commit message:

Update README.md, configs, add small documentation about configurations

README.md, after:

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo.png)

A multiboot-compliant *Executable and Linking Format* (ELF) bootloader for the x86 architecture.

### Features ###

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo-inline.png) is a highly modular BIOS bootloader for the x86 architecture . It supports drivers for both IDE and AHCI/RAID controllers. Further modules include file system drivers like *ISO 9660*. For the graphical boot menu, a simple PS/2 keyboard module is available, too.

Currently, we support the following modules:

 - Programmable Interval Timer (PIT)
 - PS/2 Keyboard module

For PCI devices, we also provide modules for:

 - IDE controller
 - AHCI/RAID controller

As for file systems, we currently support:

 - ISO 9660

Even the screen is managed by a module, which depends on the screen resolution used:

 - TTY driver <sub>(currently VGA only)</sub>

### Building elfboot-toolchain ###

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo-inline.png) requires the use of a dedicated toolchain, included in this project. The toolchain is generated simply by typing

```
make toolchain
```

### Configuring and building elfboot ###

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo-inline.png) is highly customizable. You can see a few sample configurations in the `configs` folder. For a more detailed description of how the different configurations affect the build of the bootloader, see [configs/README.md](configs/README.md).

All that's left is to create a configuration file `elfboot.config` in the root folder of this project and adjust the settings accordingly. If you are happy with the configured options, build the bootloader by typing

```
make iso
```

> **Note**: For now, we only support the generation of *ISO 9660* formatted disks. In the near future, we also want to support other file systems.

### Booting kernels ###

Each boot entry is defined in the `elfboot.cfg` boot file, which contains information about each kernel found. If only one entry is available, you can configure elfboot to directly boot the kernel without any graphical boot menu. An example for a valid boot entry for a Linux boot would look as follows:

```
bootentry "Linux 5.18.0" {
	kernel linux /root/boot/bzImage
	initrd /root/boot/rootfs.cpio.gz
	cmdline root=/dev/sr0 rw
}
```

> **Note**: Currently, we only support booting Linux. Further boot protocols are going to be introduced in the near future.

![elfboot](images/elfboot-logo-inline.png) currently supports the following boot protocols:

 - Linux (module **lxboot**)

In the near future, we want to at least implement two more protocols:

 - Multiboot (1, 2)
 - Stivale

### Screenshot ###

![elfboot menu](images/elfboot-loader-menu.png)
